Google Apps Script code which triggers on a Google form submission of tutor absences containing questions on tutor code (short answer), the subject they tutor (dropdown), which block they tutor the subject (multiple choice) and which blocks they are absent (checkbox). The form is linked to a spreadsheet which is accessed by the code, finding the tutor in the sign-in sheet and updating their absences (setting the corresponding cell to ABS). The code then searches for any team tutors on those absent days, emailing them if only one team tutor is available on a given day to inform them of the absences and ask if they would like a team tutor cover. The code then sets the absent cell of the absent tutor to ABS - TT Notified in the sign-in sheet. If there are no team tutors available available, the tutor's absent cell is changed to ABS !! and the tutors which tutor the same subject in different blocks (as found in the Ops Data) are emailed to see whether they are able to cover the class. The cell is then changed to Covers Contacted. If no potential covers are found, the Urgent Covers form is accessed and tutors who have both entered as able to tutor the class and are available on the day of the class are contacted.

<p> Within this email is a Google Form specifically created for the absent class (e.g. Specialist Mathematics 1/2 2) that contains questions on the tutor name, code and which classes they can cover (checkbox). If a tutor responds to this sheet with a specific class (i.e. Block 1A), this option is removed from the checkbox options, and the corresponding class in the tutor sign-in sheet is reverted back to ABS. Once all classes are covered for the class, the form is closed and deleted from the Ops Drive. 
</p>

<p> On the creation of the form for each class, the class is also added to the Daily Status tab in the Class Covers (Responses) sheet, and allocated to the New section for the day (in yellow). The corresponding form response sheet is also set to yellow to indicate its status. If a class is covered, this class is moved to the Covered (green) section and the corresponding response sheet has its colour changed accordingly. At 5.30pm everyday on program following Ops Briefing, classes from New are moved into Ongoing (orange) with their tab colours changed, Covered classes are removed from Daily Status and their tab colours reset and tabs hidden. Which classes are covered and by who are also included on the column to the right of the status to ensure Ops is able to verify which tutor is covering which class, no double-ups have occurred and no classes have been left empty. This process is carried out using the Google Properties Service, a piece of code which allows storage of data (in this case an array storing the classes' statuses) across multiple function calls, i.e. storing global variables.
</p>

<p> There is a Contact Urgent Covers checkbox on the top right corner of each sheet. This email sends a bulk email to all tutors with a match on <b>at least one</b> of the classes needing to be covered. That is, if classes 6A,B,C need to be covered, even if a tutor has a match only in A, they will be emailed the sheet with all the options. The classes where no tutors where found in the urgent covers sheet is also listed in the sheet after the checkbox is ticked, if there are any. </p>

<p><b> For practical purposes: </b></p>

<p> If a tutor selects "Other" in the subject that they tutor, this means that their subject is not in the dropdown list. The likely reasons for this are that either the subject is niche and wasn't added to the dropdown list, or their subject covers multiple units (i.e. all units of a single subject). In this case, Ops will be sent an email of the absence and the tutor's absence won't be recorded until Ops does it manually. The checks for team tutors and finding class covers if necessary will ensue after the manual changes to ABS for the tutor.</p>

<p> If the tutor code is not found, Ops will receive an email for which subject and classes the tutor will be absent as well as their code. In this case, it is Ops' job to find the tutor as the tutor code may not be in the sign-in sheet due to not being added yet. This needs to be resolved manually by an Ops member.</p>

<p> <b> For backend issues: </b></p>

<p> The statusProperties (i.e the properties service used to store the status of a class (covered, ongoing, new) as well as a map between the class blocks to the days they fall on) searches the program timetable when being created to build the map. However, the map uses days abbreviated to "Tue", while the program timetable uses Tuesday and Thursday abbreviated to "Tues" and "Thurs". Thus when creating the timetable map, the days need to be changed to match "Tue" on the program timetable. </p>
